Create guide on NFT collection with address as tokenId (#843)
lukso-network/docs: docs/learn/smart-contract-developers/create-nft-collection-with-lsp7-tokenId.md

## Use Case

Let's take the example of [The Dematerialised](https://thedematerialised.com), and more precisely their KLxENDLESS PHYSITAL COLLECTION. As you can see in the picture below, we have three medaillons of different colors.

![KLxENDLESS PHYSITAL COLLECTION](../../../static/img/learn/klxendless-physital-collection.png)

Each medaillon has a supply limit and each medaillon collection has its own metadata with different attributes. What we will do is create an [LSP8 collection](../../standards/tokens//LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md) that will represent the KLxENDLESS PHYSITAL collection and each medaillon a sub-collection (purple, blue or gold) will be represented by a limited supply [LSP7 token](../../standards/tokens//LSP7-Digital-Asset.md).

## Prerequisites

- [Hardhat installed and initialized](./getting-started.md)
- [`@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts) package installed from npm using `npm i @lukso/lsp-smart-contracts@0.14.0` (or the latest version)

> - [@erc725/erc725.js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@erc725/erc725.js) package installed from npm using `npm i @erc725/erc725js` (we will use it to encode the token metadata)

Reviewer: either full with or without quotes

<img width="316" alt="image" src="https://github.com/lukso-network/docs/assets/477945/500c119b-5975-40f8-aaa0-68fb326fe1c1">

but idk why one must be written like `this` and the other like that

Author: im not sure need to ask copilot

## Create the LSP7 token

Even though it seems a little bit counter intuitive, we will start by creating the LSP7 token. The reason is that the LSP8 collection will be in charge of deploying the LSP7 sub-collection tokens.

> ### Specify what we need to be set at deployment

Reviewer: this sentence looks weird -

Maybe:

```suggestion
### Specify what needs to be set at deployment
```

To create the LSP7 token contract, we will need to know what we want to be set at deployment. In our case, we want to set the following:

- the name of the sub-collection
- the symbol of the sub-collection
- the address of the owner of the sub-collection (in our case it will the the LSP8 collection contract)
- the initial receiver of the tokens that will be minted at deployment (could be the token creator)
- the number of tokens that can be minted
- whether the token is divisible or not
- the total supply of the token

> - the [Token Type](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-4-DigitalAsset-Metadata.md#lsp4tokentype)

Reviewer: I would rather put a link to:

https://docs.lukso.tech/standards/tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata#types-of-digital-assets

(relative) instead as it explains it in a slightly more human friendly way. And from there user can also find the LIP doc.

This is just an example but you may want to set a deployment of other parameters such as the [LSP4 Creators array](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-4-DigitalAsset-Metadata.md#lsp4creators).

### Imports

Let's start creating an `LSP7Token.sol` file in the `contracts` folder and importing:

- the [`LSP7DigitalAsset.sol`](https://github.com/lukso-network/lsp-smart-contracts/blob/develop/contracts/LSP7DigitalAsset/LSP7DigitalAsset.sol) contract
- the [`LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata.sol`](https://github.com/lukso-network/lsp-smart-contracts/blob/develop/contracts/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata.sol) contract
- the [`_LSP4_SUPPORTED_STANDARDS_KEY`](../../standards//tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md#supportedstandardslsp4digitalasset) constant
- the [`_LSP4_SUPPORTED_STANDARDS_VALUE`](../../standards//tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md#supportedstandardslsp4digitalasset) constant
- the [`_LSP4_METADATA_KEY`](../../standards//tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md#lsp4metadata) constant
- the [`_LSP8_REFERENCE_CONTRACT`](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-8-IdentifiableDigitalAsset.md#lsp8referencecontract) constant

> ```typescript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript title="contracts/LSP7Token.sol"
```

> import { LSP7DigitalAsset } from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/contracts/LSP7DigitalAsset/LSP7DigitalAsset.sol';

Author: I added it to the final file. just felt off adding it to the imports

import { LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata } from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/contracts/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata.sol';
import {
  _LSP4_SUPPORTED_STANDARDS_KEY,
  _LSP4_SUPPORTED_STANDARDS_VALUE,
  _LSP4_METADATA_KEY,

> } from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/contracts/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata/LSP4Constants.sol';

Reviewer: https://github.com/lukso-network/docs/blob/e067ec09ec7cd44d4b8dc9b27a1eb4098a47420c/docs/learn/expert-guides/key-manager/upgrade-key-manager.md#L258

import { _LSP8_REFERENCE_CONTRACT } from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/contracts/LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset/LSP8Constants.sol';
```

### Contract

At deployment, we will need to set the following parameters:

> - `name`: the name of the token

Reviewer: why `name` and not `name_` as per code snippet below?

I'd keep it consistent and use `name_`, `symbol_`, etc. here so it matches with the code

- `symbol`: the symbol of the token
- `owner`: the address that will be able to update the contract metadata (except the symbol, name and the LSP4TokenType)
- `receiverOfInitialTokens`: the address that will receive the minted tokens at deployment
- `[lsp4TokenType](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-4-DigitalAsset-Metadata.md#lsp4tokentype): the token type of the token
- [`isNonDivisible`](../../contracts/contracts/LSP7DigitalAsset/LSP7DigitalAsset.md#decimals): whether the token is divisible or not
- `totalSupply`: the total supply of the token
- `lsp4MetadataURI`: the [LSP4 Metadata](../../standards//tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md#lsp4metadata)

> ```typescript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript title="contracts/LSP7Token.sol"

...
```

        LSP7Token(payable(address(uint160(uint256(tokenId))))).setData(
            dataKey,
            dataValue
        );

        emit TokenIdDataChanged(tokenId, dataKey, dataValue);
    }

    // override the _getDataForTokenId function to get the data from the LSP7Token itself
    function _getDataForTokenId(
        bytes32 tokenId,
        bytes32 dataKey
    ) internal view override returns (bytes memory dataValues) {
        return
            LSP7Token(payable(address(uint160(uint256(tokenId))))).getData(
                dataKey
            );
    }
}
```

</details>

## Scripts

Now that we have the contracts ready to be deployed, let's create a script that will deploy the LSP8 token and one script that will mint the LSP7 tokens.

:::note

Please make sure you compile your newly created contracts before creating the scripts.
You can run `npx hardhat compile` to compile your contracts.
Since the contracts are quite big, you may run into a compilation error. If this is the case, you should update your compiler settings in the `hardhat.config.ts` file.
This is what we used to compile the contracts:

<details>
<summary>Click to expand/collapse the script</summary>

> ```typescript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript title="hardhat.config.ts"
```

  solidity: {
    version: "0.8.20",
    settings: {
      optimizer: {
        enabled: true,
        runs: 200,
      },
    },
  }
````

</details>
:::

### Create the metadata JSONs files

:::note
In this part we will not cover the part where you first need to upload your JSONs files on IPFS and retrieve their CIDs.

> We have done it and will add them directly in the following scripts files.

Reviewer: i ssuggest to put link and direct the user to the rights page so the user can learn about bhow to generate the files (erc725.js) or how to read them eth (link to lsp2 schema, and so on)

Author: I dont think we have one that is up to date. I am waiting for Andreas to release his lib so we can create a new one. I was hustling finding these info and those are not complete or updated

Reviewer: ok good point

Reviewer 2: Might want to make a note that IPFS folders work in this situation and the base URI can be a folder CID. I added a doc PR to the LIP that when constructing the URL we need to use encodeURI which will leave / intact. So deeper folder levels are also possible.

Reviewer 2: NOTE: there are currently folder level IPFS links out there already. Here is an example 
https://bafybeif3wv62jah7jsrtb54yt6n5n3dg72d6mxgnadmpdtrcec2gjqb7wy.ipfs.4everland.io/

:::

Let's start by creating a `lsp8TokenMetadata.json` file in the `metadata` folder and set the following metadata:

> ```json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json title="lsp8TokenMetadata.json"
```

maybe if you recommend tu put these files in a folder, add the folder path in the title

{
  "LSP4Metadata": {
    "name": "The Dematerialised",
    "description": "The Experiential Marketspace For Digital Goods",
    "links": [
      {
        "title": "Website",
        "url": "https://thedematerialised.com"
      }
    ],
    "icons": [],
    "images": [
      {
        "width": 1024,
        "height": 974,
        "url": "ipfs://QmS3jF9jsoG6gnyJ7wCeJ4bej2aJEnPSv527UV8KxjBDAA",
        "verification": {
          "method": "keccak256(bytes)",
          "data": "0xdd6b5fb6dc984fda0222fb6f6e96b471c0667b12f03b1e804f7b5e6ab62acdb0"
        }
      }
    ],
    "assets": [],
    "attributes": []
  }
}
```

We will do the same with the LSP7 token metadata. Let's create a `lsp7TokenMetadata.json` file in the `metadata` folder and set the following metadata:

> ```json

Reviewer: same add filename

        }
      }
    ],
    "images": [
      [
        {
          "width": 1024,
          "height": 974,
          "url": "ipfs://QmUGmycxrwFec15UC41v9bvnRStK3zxR7mth72mGRcUSPD",
          "verification": {
            "method": "keccak256(bytes)",
            "data": "0x951bf983a4b7bcebc5c0b00a5e783630dcb788e95ee9e44b0b7d4bde4a0b4d81"
          }
        }
      ]
    ],
    "assets": [
      {
        "verification": {
          "method": "keccak256(bytes)",
          "data": "0x88f3d704f3d534267c564019ce2b70a5733d070e71bf2c1f85b5fc487f47a46f"
        },
        "url": "ifps://QmTDQGR26dSd3c4qJpmFwTh7gNRPnNbBf2Fg3gULypUag3",
        "fileType": "mp4"
      }
    ],
    "attributes": []
  }
}
```

### Deploy the LSP8 token script

Let's create a `deployLSP8Token.ts` file in the `scripts` folder.

#### Imports

For this script we will jut need to import:

- the `ethers` library to interact with the blockchain
- the ERC725 library to convert the metadata to [VerifiableURI](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-2-ERC725YJSONSchema.md#verifiableuri)
- the LSP8 token metadata json file we just created
- the LSP4 metadata schema

> ```typescript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript title="scripts/deployLSP8Token.ts"
```

> import { ethers } from 'hardhat';
> import { ERC725, ERC725JSONSchema } from '@erc725/erc725.js';
> import lsp8TokenMetadata from './metadata/lsp8TokenMetadata.json';
> import LSP4DigitalAsset from '@erc725/erc725.js/schemas/LSP4DigitalAsset.json';

Reviewer: I suggest to order the imports

```suggestion
import { ethers } from 'hardhat';

import { ERC725, ERC725JSONSchema } from '@erc725/erc725.js';
import LSP4DigitalAsset from '@erc725/erc725.js/schemas/LSP4DigitalAsset.json';

import lsp8TokenMetadata from './metadata/lsp8TokenMetadata.json';
```

+ if i follow the guide up to here I get

You need to ask user to install erc725js with npm

<img width="889" alt="image" src="https://github.com/lukso-network/docs/assets/477945/50f104ff-172b-43ee-ab3d-97b260d3a390">

Author: weird because i added the it to eh prerequisite section

---

> sidebar_label: '🃏 Create NFT Collection with a contract address as tokenId'

Reviewer 3: How about this re-wording? So that it is more ELI5?

```suggestion
sidebar_label: '🃏 Create NFT Collection where each NFT is a contract
```

description: 'Learn how to create a NFT collection with a contract address as tokenId'
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Create NFT Collection with a contract address as tokenId

:::note

This guide builds on top of a Hardhat project using TypeScript as described in the [Getting Started](./getting-started.md) section.

:::

## Introduction

> If you have been looking at our [LSP8 token standard](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md), you probably have noticed that addresses could be used as `tokenIds`. In this guide, we will replicate a real-world example where this could be useful.

Reviewer 3: Suggest some extra precisions

```suggestion
If you have been looking at the [LSP8 token standard](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md), you probably noticed that addresses could be used as `tokenIds`. In this guide, we will replicate a real-world example where this could be useful to represent an NFT / `tokenId` as a smart contract with its own metadata.
```

## Use Case

> Let's take the example of [The Dematerialised](https://thedematerialised.com), and more precisely their KLxENDLESS PHYSITAL COLLECTION. As you can see in the picture below, we have three medaillons of different colors.

Reviewer 3: Are these typos? Or is it the actual wording?

Also maybe there could be a link to the collection if we have a link?

```suggestion
Let's take the example of [The Dematerialised](https://thedematerialised.com), and more precisely their KLxENDLESS PHYGITAL COLLECTION. As you can see in the picture below, we have three medalions of different colours.
```

![KLxENDLESS PHYSITAL COLLECTION](../../../static/img/learn/klxendless-physital-collection.png)

> Each medaillon has a supply limit and each medaillon collection has its own metadata with different attributes. What we will do is create an [LSP8 collection](../../standards/tokens//LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md) that will represent the KLxENDLESS PHYSITAL collection and each medaillon a sub-collection (purple, blue or gold) will be represented by a limited supply [LSP7 token](../../standards/tokens//LSP7-Digital-Asset.md).

Reviewer 3: Suggested additions

```suggestion
Each medaillon has a supply limit and each medaillon collection has its own metadata with different attributes. What we will do is create an [LSP8 collection](../../standards/tokens//LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md) that will represent the whole KLxENDLESS PHYSITAL collection and each medaillon will be a sub-collection (purple, blue or gold) will with a limited supply of NFTs [(Non-divisible LSP7 token)](../../standards/tokens//LSP7-Digital-Asset.md).
```

## Prerequisites

- [Hardhat installed and initialized](./getting-started.md)

> - [`@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts) package installed from npm using `npm i @lukso/lsp-smart-contracts@0.14.0` (or the latest version)

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't recomment to add the version number, as we could forget it to update on new releases.

It should install the latest version in any case.

```suggestion
- [`@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts) package installed from npm using `npm i @lukso/lsp-smart-contracts` (or the latest version)
```

Author: true i will remove but i hope future tokens version will still be compatible with it

- [`@erc725/erc725.js`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@erc725/erc725.js) package installed from npm using `npm i @erc725/erc725js` (we will use it to encode the token metadata)

> 

Reviewer 3: Maybe you can write a command to install everything at once?

```
npm i @lukso/lsp-smart-contracts @erc725/erc725.js
```

## Create the LSP7 token

> Even though it seems a little bit counter intuitive, we will start by creating the LSP7 token. The reason is that the LSP8 collection will be in charge of deploying the LSP7 sub-collection tokens.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Even though it seems a little bit counter-intuitive, we will start by creating a sub-collection using an LSP7 token. The reason is that the LSP8 collection will be in charge of deploying the LSP7 sub-collection tokens.
```

### Specify what needs to be set at deployment

> To create the LSP7 token contract, we will need to know what we want to be set at deployment. In our case, we want to set the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To create the LSP7 token contract, we will need to know the parameters to be set at deployment. In our case, we want to set the following:
```

- the name of the sub-collection
- the symbol of the sub-collection

> - the address of the owner of the sub-collection (in our case it will the the LSP8 collection contract)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- the address of the [`owner()`](link/to-contract/abi-docs/for-LSP7#owner-method) that will control the sub-collection contract (in our case this will the LSP8 collection contract)
```

- the initial receiver of the tokens that will be minted at deployment (could be the token creator)

> - the number of tokens that can be minted

Reviewer 3: Maximum I guess?

```suggestion
- the maximum number of tokens that can be minted
```

- whether the token is divisible or not
- the total supply of the token
- the [Token Type](../../standards/tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md#types-of-digital-assets)
- the [LSP4 Metadata](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-4-DigitalAsset-Metadata.md#lsp4metadata)

> This is just an example but you may want to set a deployment of other parameters such as the [LSP4 Creators array](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-4-DigitalAsset-Metadata.md#lsp4creators).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is just an example. You can adjust these parameters according to your needs or define other deployment parameters such as the [LSP4 Creators array](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-4-DigitalAsset-Metadata.md#lsp4creators).
```

### Imports

> Let's start creating an `LSP7Token.sol` file in the `contracts` folder and importing:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's start creating an `LSP7Token.sol` file in the `contracts/` folder and import:
```

> - the [`LSP7DigitalAsset.sol`](https://github.com/lukso-network/lsp-smart-contracts/blob/develop/contracts/LSP7DigitalAsset/LSP7DigitalAsset.sol) contract

Reviewer 3: Not sure if we need the `.sol` extension, since we are talking about importing a `contract` here?

```suggestion
- the [`LSP7DigitalAsset`](https://github.com/lukso-network/lsp-smart-contracts/blob/develop/contracts/LSP7DigitalAsset/LSP7DigitalAsset.sol) contract
```

- the [`_LSP4_SUPPORTED_STANDARDS_KEY`](../../standards//tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md#supportedstandardslsp4digitalasset) constant
- the [`_LSP4_SUPPORTED_STANDARDS_VALUE`](../../standards//tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md#supportedstandardslsp4digitalasset) constant
- the [`_LSP4_METADATA_KEY`](../../standards//tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md#lsp4metadata) constant
- the [`_LSP8_REFERENCE_CONTRACT`](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-8-IdentifiableDigitalAsset.md#lsp8referencecontract) constant

```typescript title="contracts/LSP7Token.sol"
import { LSP7DigitalAsset } from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/contracts/LSP7DigitalAsset/LSP7DigitalAsset.sol';
import { LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata } from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/contracts/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata.sol';

import {
  _LSP4_SUPPORTED_STANDARDS_KEY,
  _LSP4_SUPPORTED_STANDARDS_VALUE,
  _LSP4_METADATA_KEY
} from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/contracts/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata/LSP4Constants.sol';
import { _LSP8_REFERENCE_CONTRACT } from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/contracts/LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset/LSP8Constants.sol';

> <!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Reviewer 3: This might have been forgotten?

```suggestion

```

```

### Contract

At deployment, we will need to set the following parameters:

- `name_`: the name of the token
- `symbol_`: the symbol of the token
- `owner_`: the address that will be able to update the contract metadata (except the symbol, name and the LSP4TokenType)
- `receiverOfInitialTokens_`: the address that will receive the minted tokens at deployment

> - `[lsp4TokenType\_](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-4-DigitalAsset-Metadata.md#lsp4tokentype): the token type of the token

Reviewer 3: Suggest linking to the LSP4 standard page on the docs, instead of the standard LSP specs

Author: hmm honestly i prefer github lips as i find them more complete but also understand the point that is more developper focus. Will update

- [`isNonDivisible_`](../../contracts/contracts/LSP7DigitalAsset/LSP7DigitalAsset.md#decimals): whether the token is divisible or not
- `totalSupply_`: the total supply of the token
- `lsp4MetadataURI_`: the [LSP4 Metadata](../../standards//tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md#lsp4metadata)

> ```typescript title="contracts/LSP8Token.sol"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```typescript title="contracts/LSP7Token.sol"
```

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should rename these `LSP7SubCollection` to improve the understanding of the reader?

contract LSP7Token is LSP7DigitalAsset {
    constructor(
        string memory name_,
        string memory symbol_,
        address newOwner_,
        address receiverOfInitialTokens_,
        uint256 lsp4TokenType_,
        bool isNonDivisible_,
        uint256 totalSupply_,
        bytes memory lsp4MetadataURI_
    )
        LSP7DigitalAsset(
            name_,
            symbol_,
            newOwner_,
            lsp4TokenType_,
            isNonDivisible_
        )
    {
        // set SupportedStandards:LSP4DigitalAsset

>         LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata._setData(

Reviewer 3: This line is not need, as it is already set by `LSP7DigitaAsset` via the parent `constructor` of `LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata`.

<img width="708" alt="image" src="https://github.com/lukso-network/docs/assets/31145285/de812291-67e0-4b1a-be62-8f7128f432cb">

See this link for reference to the code: https://github.com/lukso-network/lsp-smart-contracts/blob/def913ddabf007daad8cb486c9badb10a975af75/contracts/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata.sol#L41-L45

            lsp4TokenType_,
            isNonDivisible_
        )
    {
        // set SupportedStandards:LSP4DigitalAsset
        LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata._setData(
            _LSP4_SUPPORTED_STANDARDS_KEY,
            _LSP4_SUPPORTED_STANDARDS_VALUE
        );

        // set LSP8ReferenceContract
        LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata._setData(
            _LSP8_REFERENCE_CONTRACT,
            abi.encodePacked(
                msg.sender,
                bytes32(uint256(uint160(address(this))))
            )
        );

        // set the lsp4MetadataURI
        _setData(_LSP4_METADATA_KEY, lsp4MetadataURI_);

        // mint all tokens to the receiver of the initial tokens
        _mint(receiverOfInitialTokens_, totalSupply_, true, "");
    }

    // override the _setData function so that the LSP8ReferenceContract is not editable
    function _setData(
        bytes32 dataKey,
        bytes memory dataValue
    ) internal override {
        require(
            dataKey != _LSP8_REFERENCE_CONTRACT,
            "LSP8ReferenceContractNotEditable"
        );
        LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata._setData(dataKey, dataValue);
    }
}

```

</details>

## Create the LSP8 token

> Now that we have the LSP7 token, we can create the LSP8 token.

Reviewer 3: As said previously, I would suggest using the word "Collection" and "Sub-Collection" for better understanding other "LSP7 Token" / "LSP8 Token"

### Specify what the LSP8 token will need to do

> The LSP8 token will be in charge of deploying the LSP7 token and minting the initial supply. When minting the LSP7 tokens, the deployed LSP7 token will be set as a `tokenId` of the LSP8 token.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion. Let me know what you think or if it is too much :)

```suggestion
The LSP8 Collection will be in charge of creating new Sub-Collections. It will do this by deploying a new LSP7 Sub-Collection and mint the initial supply of NFTs for the sub-collection. When minting the NFTs (as LSP7 tokens), the address of the deployed LSP7 sub-collection will be set as a `tokenId` within the LSP8 Collection.
```

Author: great thanks

For this reason, when minting a new token on the LSP8 contract (a new LSP7 token contract), we will need to set the following:

- the `name` of the LSP7 token
- the `symbol` of the LSP7 token
- the [`lsp4TokenType`](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md##lsp4tokentype) of the LSP7 token
- the `isNonDivisible` of the LSP7 token
- the `totalSupply` of the LSP7 token
- the `receiver` of the initial tokens of the LSP7 token

### Imports

> Let's start creating an `LSP8Token.sol` file in the `contracts` folder and import:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's start creating an `LSP8Token.sol` file in the `contracts/` folder and import:
```

import { LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset } from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/contracts/LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset/LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset.sol';
import { _LSP4_METADATA_KEY } from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/contracts/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata/LSP4Constants.sol';
import { LSP7Token } from './LSP7Token.sol';
```

### Contract

#### Constructor

The constructor will be in charge of setting the following parameters:

- `name`: the name of the LSP8 token
- `symbol`: the symbol of the LSP8 token
- `owner`: the owner of the LSP8 token that will be able change the contract metadata and mint new LSP7 tokens
- [`lsp4TokenType`](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md##lsp4tokentype) of the LSP7 token
- `lsp8TokenIdFormat`: the [format of the tokenId](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-8-IdentifiableDigitalAsset.md#lsp8tokenidformat) of the LSP8 token
- `lsp4MetadataURI`: the [LSP4 Metadata](../../standards//tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md#lsp4metadata)

```typescript
contract LSP8Token is LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset {
    constructor(
        string memory name_,
        string memory symbol_,
        address newOwner_,
        uint256 lsp4TokenType_,

>         uint256 lsp8TokenIdFormat_,

Reviewer 3: Since this tutorial uses `Address` as the `lsp8TokenIdFormat`, can't we pass that as a parameter imported from the `LSP8Constants.sol`?

```solidity
import { _LSP8_TOKENID_FORMAT_ADDRESS } from "@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/contracts/LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset/LSP8Constants.sol";

constructor(
        string memory name_,
        string memory symbol_,
        address newOwner_,
        uint256 lsp4TokenType_,
        bytes memory lsp4MetadataURI_
    )
        LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset(
            name_,
            symbol_,
            newOwner_,
            lsp4TokenType_,
            _LSP8_TOKENID_FORMAT_ADDRESS
        )
    {
        // set the lsp4MetadataURI
        _setData(_LSP4_METADATA_KEY, lsp4MetadataURI_);
    }
// ...
```

Author: good point

        bytes memory lsp4MetadataURI_
    )
        LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset(
            name_,
            symbol_,
            newOwner_,
            lsp4TokenType_,
            lsp8TokenIdFormat_
        )
    {
        // set the lsp4MetadataURI
        _setData(_LSP4_METADATA_KEY, lsp4MetadataURI_);
    }
}
```

#### Mint function

Now let's implement the `mint(...)` function. This function will only be callable by the owner of the contract and will be in charge of deploying the LSP7 tokens as well as minting the LSP8 tokenId that will represent the LSP7 token.

```typescript
contract LSP8Token is LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset {

  // previous code

    function mint(
        string memory nameOfLSP7_,
        string memory symbolOfLSP7_,
        uint256 lsp4TokenType_,
        bool isNonDivisible_,
        uint256 totalSupplyOfLSP7_,
        address receiverOfInitialTokens_,
        bytes memory lsp4MetadataURIOfLSP7_

>     ) public returns (address lsp7TokenAddress) {

Reviewer 3: missing the `onlyOwner` modifier here.

```suggestion
    ) public onlyOwner returns (address lsp7TokenAddress) {
```

Reviewer 3: I think you could also return directly the `LSP7Token` contract type? In the ABI for dApps consuming or using the tutorial, it will be converted as an `address` anyway.

```suggestion
    ) public returns (LSP7Token lsp7Token) {
```

Author: hmmm

Since we are inheriting from the `LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset.sol` contract, we will need to override the [`setDataForTokenId`](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-8-IdentifiableDigitalAsset.md#setdatafortokenid) & [`getDataForTokenId`](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-8-IdentifiableDigitalAsset.md#getdatafortokenid) functions (same for the batch functions). These functions will be in charge of setting and getting the metadata of the deployed LSP7 token. In this particular case, it will make more sense to directly call on the [`setData(...)`](../../contracts/contracts/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata.md#setData) and [`getData(...)`](../../contracts/contracts/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata/LSP4DigitalAssetMetadata.md#getData) functions of the LSP7 token contract.

```typescript
contract LSP8Token is LSP8IdentifiableDigitalAsset {

    // previous code

    // override the _setDataForTokenId function to set the data on the LSP7Token itself
    function _setDataForTokenId(
        bytes32 tokenId,
        bytes32 dataKey,
        bytes memory dataValue
    ) internal override {
        // setData on the LSP7Token

>         LSP7Token(payable(address(uint160(uint256(tokenId))))).setData(

Reviewer 3: Very nice! 👌 🪂

            LSP7Token(payable(address(uint160(uint256(tokenId))))).getData(
                dataKey
            );
    }
}
```

</details>

## Scripts

Now that we have the contracts ready to be deployed, let's create a script that will deploy the LSP8 token and one script that will mint the LSP7 tokens.

:::note

Please make sure you compile your newly created contracts before creating the scripts.
You can run `npx hardhat compile` to compile your contracts.
Since the contracts are quite big, you may run into a compilation error. If this is the case, you should update your compiler settings in the `hardhat.config.ts` file.
This is what we used to compile the contracts:

<details>
<summary>Click to expand/collapse the script</summary>
```typescript title="hardhat.config.ts"
  solidity: {
    version: "0.8.20",
    settings: {
      optimizer: {
        enabled: true,
        runs: 200,
      },
    },
  }
````

</details>
:::

### Create the metadata JSONs files

:::note
In this part we will not cover the part where you first need to upload your JSONs files on IPFS and retrieve their CIDs.
We have done it and will add them directly in the following scripts files.
:::

> Let's start by creating a `lsp8TokenMetadata.json` file in the `metadatas` folder and set the following metadata:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's start by creating a `lsp8TokenMetadata.json` file in the `metadatas/` folder and set the following metadata:
```

        "width": 256,
        "height": 256,
        "url": "ipfs://QmS3jF9jsoG6gnyJ7wCeJ4bej2aJEnPSv527UV8KxjBDAA",
        "verification": {
          "method": "keccak256(bytes)",
          "data": "0xdd6b5fb6dc984fda0222fb6f6e96b471c0667b12f03b1e804f7b5e6ab62acdb0"
        }
      }
    ],
    "images": [
      [
        {
          "width": 1024,
          "height": 974,
          "url": "ipfs://QmUGmycxrwFec15UC41v9bvnRStK3zxR7mth72mGRcUSPD",
          "verification": {
            "method": "keccak256(bytes)",
            "data": "0x951bf983a4b7bcebc5c0b00a5e783630dcb788e95ee9e44b0b7d4bde4a0b4d81"
          }
        }
      ]
    ],
    "assets": [
      {
        "verification": {
          "method": "keccak256(bytes)",
          "data": "0x88f3d704f3d534267c564019ce2b70a5733d070e71bf2c1f85b5fc487f47a46f"
        },
        "url": "ifps://QmTDQGR26dSd3c4qJpmFwTh7gNRPnNbBf2Fg3gULypUag3",
        "fileType": "mp4"
      }
    ],
    "attributes": []
  }
}
```

### Deploy the LSP8 token script

Let's create a `deployLSP8Token.ts` file in the `scripts` folder.

#### Imports

For this script we will jut need to import:

- the `ethers` library to interact with the blockchain

> - the ERC725 library to convert the metadata to [VerifiableURI](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-2-ERC725YJSONSchema.md#verifiableuri)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- the [`@erc725/erc725.js`](link-to-getting-started-page-in-the-tools) library to convert the metadata to [VerifiableURI](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-2-ERC725YJSONSchema.md#verifiableuri)
```

- the LSP4 metadata schema

```typescript
import { ethers } from 'hardhat';
import { ERC725, ERC725JSONSchema } from '@erc725/erc725.js';
import lsp7TokenMetadata from './metadata/lsp7TokenMetadata.json';
import LSP4DigitalAsset from '@erc725/erc725.js/schemas/LSP4DigitalAsset.json';
```

#### Constants

For this script, we will need to set the following constants:

- `lsp8TokenContractAddress`: the address of the LSP8 token contract we just deployed
- `lsp7TokenName`: the name of the LSP7 token we want to mint
- `lsp7TokenSymbol`: the symbol of the LSP7 token we want to mint
- `lsp7TokenType`: the token type of the LSP7 token we want to mint
- `lsp7TokenIsNonDivisible`: whether the LSP7 token we want to mint is divisible or not
- `lsp7TokenTotalSupply`: the total supply of the LSP7 token we want to mint
- `lsp7TokenMetadataCID`: the IPFS CID of the LSP7 token metadata file we just created

```typescript
const lsp8TokenContractAddress = '0x567B9322500069725db0169C362dc4e939934c8b';
const lsp7TokenName = 'KLxENDLESS MEDALLION Purple';
const lsp7TokenSymbol = 'KLxENDLESS MEDALLION';
const lsp7TokenType = 2;
const lsp7TokenIsNonDivisible = true; // decimals will be 0

> const lsp7TokenSupply = 50;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const lsp7TokenSupply = 50; // Create 50 NFTs in the sub-collection
```
